[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hi, I'm Lisa Garr, host
of "Gaiam Inspirations."
My guest today has a story
that is beyond belief.
As a matter of fact, it'll take
a leap of faith to listen to.
And the fact that Michael
Tamura is here to tell his story
is incredible.
Michael Tamura is my guest.
He has been a spiritual
teacher for over 38 years.
And in the past
decade, he has had
five experiences
where he physically
died for a period of time.
And he came back with
very powerful messages
that he's going to
share with us today.
His story is very,
very worth telling.
And listen closely
for the lessons
that you're about to hear.
Welcome to the show.
Thank you for being here.
Thank you for having me.
It's great to be
here, Lisa. [CHUCKLE]
LISA GARR: I truly mean that.
Now, I have known
Michael for a long time.
I've known Michael
for about 20 years.
And I've been through
all of his classes,
and the teachings,
and the learning.
So to have you here after
what you've experienced
and the people that have
learned from you over the past,
it's really, really wonderful.
So I want you to
share your story,
and I want to get into that.
But first, let's talk a
little bit about your 38
years of teaching, and
what it is you have been
teaching over all these years?
Well, it's funny, because
even though outwardly,
I haven't said to
a lot of people,
I teach you how
to die correctly.
[CHUCKLE]
LISA GARR: Oh, I've
never really gotten that.
Yeah.
But that's really what I've
been teaching for 38 years.
It's interesting, three years
before my mother died, all
of a sudden, she recalled that
when she was pregnant with me,
she said there was this young
Japanese-- we were in Japan,
of course-- and this Japanese
college student ran over
to her with a deck of cards
and said, Mrs. Tamura,
I have to give your
baby a reading.
And she didn't know what that
meant at the time, never heard
of that.
And so she said OK.
And he dealt out the
cards, and then he said,
well, your baby is a boy,
and he's strong and healthy.
And that part she
said, what mother
doesn't want to hear that?
And so she said, oh, how nice.
And then she said it wasn't
until when I was 40 years old
and she's telling me this story
that she connected the dots,
she said after that, he
said when your son grows up,
he's going to be a spiritual
teacher and a healer
and go all over the world
teaching and healing people.
And she didn't remember
that until you were 40.
MICHAEL TAMURA: No, she didn't.
She said it just
went over her head.
She didn't know what
that meant or anything.
And then finally, we were
sitting down talking.
And I was talking about a lot
of the things I was just doing.
And she says, oh,
this was predicted
before you were even born.
LISA GARR: Interesting.
And so when I came in to
this lifetime, a lot of people
don't remember what
it's like to be a baby.
But I remember quite a bit of
what it's like to be a baby.
And the body's a baby,
but you're not. [CHUCKLE]
LISA GARR: As spirit.
I'm just like I am now,
except in a little body.
[CHUCKLE] And nobody
listens to you. [CHUCKLE]
LISA GARR: So the consciousness
of being a full human is there,
but you just can't--
MICHAEL TAMURA: Absolutely.
---express it quite yet.
MICHAEL TAMURA: And I was
aware I'm here to teach.
LISA GARR: You were
aware of that as a baby?
As a child.
And I kept on trying to do that.
But I didn't have a
very good audience.
[LAUGHS] Nobody--
Worms, lizards, those are my--
Yeah, exactly.
Worms would listen to
me, little critters,
and they were my friends.
So early on in my
life, I realized
I have to become an old man
before people would start
to listen to what I had to say.
And I guess now I had
to die a few times.
[CHUCKLE]
LISA GARR: I really get it.
It's all right.
You don't even have to keep--
But actually when you said
that, that makes sense to me.
Because a lot of your
teachings are the fact
that we are
consciousness, and that
blend between life and
death is really very thin
when you think about it.
And your experiences
really show that.
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yeah, exactly
because most people's concept
of death is the
physical death, right?
The body is born,
and then it dies.
But for the soul's perspective,
death isn't anything like that.
Death is letting go, and
moving on, and learning.
So not to get hung up on what
already happened, but really
being able to realize that,
oh, what's important to me
is my next step, my
what do I choose next.
LISA GARR: And you can do that
within this lifetime, too.
MICHAEL TAMURA: That's right.
We don't have to get rid of
the body to do that. [CHUCKLE]
Apparently not.
So in your years of
teaching, and now
you teach all over
the world, I have
a couple of pictures that show
of your teaching experiences.
You've been to India to teach.
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yes,
that was an experience.
In this particular
photo, what are you doing?
If there's a blessing that
happens before the teaching?
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yes, I'm
being honored at the beginning
as the teacher.
It's a very, very
devotional culture,
and a very high respect
for a spiritual teacher.
And so they honored me with
the garland and everything.
And she brings the candle
light, the oil lamp,
and I'm to transfer the
light from the oil lamp
to the main altar.
And before I start the teaching.
And that's-- oh, I see.
So that--
MICHAEL TAMURA: So
that's what we're doing.
LISA GARR: --sets the space,
so to speak, for the teaching.
And then the other places
that you have taught,
of course, back in Hawaii.
Now did you live in Hawaii
for a period of time?
MICHAEL TAMURA:
No, I feel like it.
LISA GARR: It looks like you do.
MICHAEL TAMURA: I
feel right at home.
LISA GARR: It looks like it.
MICHAEL TAMURA: The two places
where I feel right at home
is Mount Shasta, where I do
live currently, and Hawaii.
LISA GARR: Yeah, it looks like--
I mean, the joy on your face
there is amazing.
And as we're going to see
throughout the experiences
that you've had, which were
pretty brutal experiences,
you come back to this place
after every experience
that you've had.
It's quite phenomenal.
And I've been in many
of your lectures.
And one of the things
that you do, and you have
an amazing clairvoyant
ability where you're
able to see into people's pasts,
futures, many different layers
of their lifetime.
What is that experience
like when you do see that?
MICHAEL TAMURA: I've
always had that.
That part started
off when I was real
little as more mathematical.
I would see geometry.
So if I walked up to you
like this, in between us,
there would be this geometrical
shape, very intricate.
Dolphins have that.
Swimming with the dolphins,
especially in Hawaii,
they've showed me the very thing
that I used to see as a child.
And they know how to
communicate that way.
But humans--
LISA GARR: Interesting.
We have shapes inside us, yeah.
When I would point it out to
people, they didn't understand.
And in a childlike
fashion, every time
that they didn't understand,
I'd go, oh, that didn't work.
Because I wanted to
establish communication.
And every time I said that
didn't work about something,
it disappeared.
This is how we
undo our abilities.
We stop ourselves.
We close down.
And so when the geometrical
things went away,
then I start to see auras--
what I know now as auras.
But at the time I'm six,
seven, eight years old.
And there was no words that
I knew in my vocabulary.
Nobody else talked about it.
LISA GARR: Were they
just colors, shadows?
I used to say people had
colored clouds around them.
And the colored clouds
would change colors.
And I would know
what they're going
through by looking at that.
But when I tried to tell
people, especially adults,
it was like-- [CHUCKLE]
LISA GARR: That's interesting,
because the colors, over time,
as you started to see
colors more and more,
did certain colors start to
identify with certain meanings?
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yes.
And before I got to
that point as a child,
I ran into the same problem.
I wasn't able to
establish communication
with people on that level.
So I decided, well,
that didn't work either.
And I never quite lost the aura.
And I always saw the
aura, except it faded
into the background a little bit
more, not up front and intense.
Except when somebody got
very intense emotionally
and intently.
Then the aura would come
forward, very vividly.
But in normal situations, kind
of the noise of this world
eclipsed it a little bit.
LISA GARR: But when you
look at people these days,
and you see someone
who's very, very bright--
MICHAEL TAMURA:
Like you. [LAUGHS]
Like I feel when I'm with you.
And actually, we have a picture
of you giving a lecture.
And in the picture,
there's people
who are very, very bright,
and just the room, to me,
exudes brightness.
But it's because I've been
in one of those rooms,
and I know that feeling
after you have done
a six, seven-hour workshop.
And the layers of
heaviness come off of you.
And when you're left with
just brightness in your soul,
you just beam.
And it goes beyond you.
So you see that in
people all the time
MICHAEL TAMURA: All the time.
You see light emanating.
And do you see the opposite?
Do you see where
someone's closed down?
I always can see the
light within a person.
But many people cover it over.
So it's like wearing
a cloak around them.
And so from the outside,
it looks dark, or darker.
And so when I say
somebody's very bright,
that means they're not
covering it over as much.
LISA GARR: Do you think
people cover their light
because they maybe got
invalidated for shining
it too brightly once?
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yes, and
they're afraid-- afraid
of what people are going to
think if they're too bright.
Because people who can't have
that, who have a hard time
having people being bright.
And it's like misery
loves company, you know.
I'm miserable, I don't
want you to be happy.
It's like that.
LISA GARR: And those people
will migrate towards each other.
And really, what it really is
their auras matching, right?
Yeah, their energy matches
and they get into sync.
It's kind of like
people come together
and start doing things,
or living closer together.
And it's a vibration likeness.
LISA GARR: And is it
a soul match as well?
MICHAEL TAMURA: Often, as
souls we plan before we
come into the incarnation.
We plan who we're going to be
with, what we're going to do.
It's not like a script that
you follow exactly to the T,
but pretty much you know what's
going to happen in your life,
because that's your plan.
It's very much like
going to school.
You know that you're going
to go to medical school,
or law school, or art school.
So you know what you're
going to be going into,
even though you might
not know exactly how it's
going to play out every day.
LISA GARR: So you know, so
that when you get there,
then it seems, in
some way, familiar
or you have planned it?
MICHAEL TAMURA: Exactly.
OK.
MICHAEL TAMURA: So then you
go, oh, I'm in the right place,
or I'm not in the
right place. [LAUGHS]
So, did that happen to you when
you had your first experience,
when you actually--
-Oh yes.
-It did?
You felt that this was--
The right place.
LISA GARR: Wow.
Well, how I ended up
there was I was very, very
sick, having this
thing called traveling
gout all over the body.
I've gone through a
lot of pain in my life,
physical pain and stuff.
There's nothing like
the pain I was in then.
On the scale of zero
to 10, it was 50.
LISA GARR: Wow.
And it's all over.
And so it got so bad, and
I was pretty emaciated.
Raphaelle got very
perturbed because she said I
looked like a prisoner of war.
LISA GARR: Your wife?
Yeah.
And so that day, that late
afternoon, she was gone,
and I was by myself at home.
I just crawled into
bed in a dark room.
And I couldn't do anything.
And it got to so bad that
I'm lying there going,
I'm talking to God,
and I'm saying,
I don't know how much
longer I can handle this.
And, [SNAP] bam!
I'm taken out.
I'm out of my body,
and I'm being escorted
by this great, beautiful being.
I'm being escorted into
this-- like a conference room.
Except it's not like
a business energy,
it's more like a church.
It's a very holy place.
LISA GARR: Now when you
say "bam," you mean you,
as consciousness, lifted out--
MICHAEL TAMURA: Of my body.
-Pain was gone?
Pain was completely gone.
And then not even
gone, no thought of it.
It's like one moment you're
in excruciating pain.
The next moment, what pain?
In fact, what body?
LISA GARR: It was real,
it was a real feeling
that you were experiencing.
Absolutely, and very familiar.
And I knew where I was.
And I walked into this
room and sat down.
And I was surrounded by
five other great beings,
one of them being that one
who escorted me to this room.
And I recognized
them as great lights.
And then when this first
communication came on,
they all appeared
as people, as men.
They were all men.
And the one next
to me was sitting
at the head of the table.
And he looked like
a Viking king,
LISA GARR: Oh.
---royalty.
LISA GARR: Wow.
Long blonde hair, very
muscular, very big.
And all white, a
dress like a robe.
And then the one
across from me was
in purple and gold,
very majestic-looking,
and older face, and very wise.
And they're all very
wise, great beings.
And so there are five
of them around me.
So the six of us are
sitting in one end
of like a long conference table.
And the first thing they said
was, it was a total welcome.
In this level,
communication is complete.
It's not just words, it's
not just sound or anything.
It's just a whole experience
with your total being-ness.
So it's like being welcomed
by a whole group of people.
LISA GARR: And that
moment is complete.
MICHAEL TAMURA: It's complete.
Interesting.
MICHAEL TAMURA: And then the
next thing was congratulations.
There was a type of
congratulation experience
that you've done a great job,
and that you have fulfilled way
beyond the call of
duty, and you've
accomplished way more than
you've set out to accomplish
in this incarnation.
So essentially, they were
saying I'm done with what
I came to do here on Earth.
And then they gave me a choice--
would you like to stay here
with us and continue your
spiritual work in teaching
and guiding people's souls
from the spiritual realm,
or would you like to go back
to the earthly existence
and do more?
LISA GARR: And when you were
presented with the choice,
did you have feelings or
emotions that you remember?
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yes,
I was totally neutral.
It was neither.
I didn't go, oh yes, I want
to do this or the that.
There was no desire.
LISA GARR: I get it.
You weren't hooked by anything.
-Mm-mm.
It was just totally neutral.
And so then I decided
to give it back to them.
And then I said OK, well,
instead of me making
that decision, I like you to let
me know from your great wisdom
and a larger
perspective than I have,
what would bring about
the most benefit,
not just to myself,
but to anyone involved?
And unanimously
and instantly, they
said it would be
of great benefit
if you went back to Earth.
LISA GARR: Interesting.
And then what did you
feel at that point?
Was that again in that
space of neutrality?
MICHAEL TAMURA: It
was total neutrality.
And I said, OK.
[LAUGHS]
LISA GARR: Now, I mean.
I've interviewed Raymond
Moody on Gaiam TV.
And the classic near-death
experience is what
you're describing right now.
I know you know Raymond.
How does this differ
from that experience?
Was this a near-death
experience?
MICHAEL TAMURA: Well,
I would say probably
a near-death experience.
I don't have any
medical documentation
or anything with what happened
to the body during that time.
All I know is when I came back--
It was an experience.
My heart just went, ka-boom!
And it kick-started again,
and I gasped for air.
And I don't really know how
long I was out of the body.
LISA GARR: How did you feel
physically when you came back?
MICHAEL TAMURA:
Well, the funny thing
is when I said OK to coming
back, again, you're not
thinking about anything here.
It's on the drafting
table, and that's a plan.
Let's go for it.
Well, the person-- the
being that escorted me there
was going to escort me back.
And the minute I kind of turned
around to put my attention
back into my body, the pain
was searing, excruciating.
And I realized on
my way out, I said,
if I'm going to be of
any good to anybody,
I'm going to need some
help healing the body,
or else I won't be
able to function
in the condition it's in.
And I heard them say,
"fine," as I'm going back.
LISA GARR: Oh.
And I came back
to the body-- boom!
Everything kick-starts.
And I'm gasping for air, and
my heart's going da-da-da-da.
And then I notice the
pain is still there.
It's excruciating pain.
But I had so much more
of myself in energy
that I could deal
with it now, where
I was just fading fast before.
LISA GARR: Interesting.
So I wonder if it was
perspective that brought
you that, or was just you--
MICHAEL TAMURA: Just more
ener-- more of myself.
You know, when you're in
pain, you tend to leave.
And I came back much more full.
And over the course of
the next few months,
the experience was
completely being reborn.
The slate was clear.
My life before leaving the body
and meeting with the council
and afterward, coming back,
is completely different.
LISA GARR: In what way?
On the inside, I
felt totally new.
It's like, you know,
when you have life,
you know what you did yesterday,
and it carries over to today,
and you're continuing
that whole process.
Yes, I remembered what
happened yesterday
and everything before.
But it was like starting
from right here.
LISA GARR: Most of us don't
have those significant shifts
overnight--
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yeah,
and this was over--
---without a pinnacle
moment happening.
Exactly.
And so I knew what
they said was true.
It was literally my experience
was I had another incarnation.
I started a new life.
And then after that,
how long did it take
you to get back on your feet?
Well, I knew that it
took me about two years
to complete-- see, even though
I was finished in spirit,
when I came back to the body,
there's things going on.
I had commitments,
and appointments,
and teaching commitments, and
things like that scheduled way
in advance.
So I knew I had to
finish those commitments.
It took me two years to tie up
all the loose ends from my life
before.
LISA GARR: So this happened
in around 2004, right?
MICHAEL TAMURA: 2004.
-OK, that experience.
And then two years later,
you had another experience?
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yes.
Well, interestingly enough,
shortly after I came back
from the first one is
when my guide said,
OK, you need to stop doing
your private sessions
and go full-time into teaching,
and writing, and getting
your teachings out there more.
LISA GARR: I remember that.
So you were doing individual
readings for people
that were phenomenal.
I've had those
experiences, and you
would move me forward lifetimes
of karma in those healings.
They're really healings
more than readings--
Yep, exactly.
---really.
So you stopped doing
those, it was too much.
MICHAEL TAMURA: Well,
it took me two years
to tie up all the loose ends.
And there's so many
people who ask.
And so finally about two
years later in July of 2006,
I had my first heart attack.
[CHUCKLE]
LISA GARR: First, OK.
-Yeah.
And I love that you're
laughing about this.
I didn't know it was going
to be the first one. [LAUGHS]
Even though I was a nurse when I
was a teenager for three years,
you don't know unless
you've experienced
it what a heart attack is.
And it didn't fit the model, you
know, pain down your left arm,
and crushing chest pain,
and all that stuff.
I didn't have that.
In fact, the night before,
Raphaelle and myself,
we were at a friend's
house healing center,
actually, in Oregon.
And they did an
impromptu birthday
party for me when
they discovered
my birthday was in four days.
So Monday night, we had
this birthday party.
And when that lady brings
the cake with the candles,
and she goes OK, close
your eyes and make a wish.
I closed my eyes, and even
though there was 50-something,
60 people there
and lots of noise,
everything stopped
inside of myself.
Out there was
probably still noise.
But it was complete
quiet and stillness.
There's not a
thought in my mind.
And I couldn't get a
It was just pure empty.
And then all of a
sudden in the middle
is this golden light
that just starts
to fill this empty
space, and just
starts to fill it and fill it.
And I get this thought.
One thought that I had was,
oh, I would like to more
fully embody the Christ,
the Christ consciousness,
the Christ energy.
And I thought, what a
great idea. [CHUCKLE]
I'll make that my wish.
And then I opened
my eyes, blew out
the candles, everybody
clapped, and sang me happy
birthday, and the party went on.
Well, the next
morning, I wake up.
I'm still in bed,
Raphaelle's already up
feeding the dog and everything.
And I can hear the
clattering in the kitchen.
I wake up to the space
of total limitless bliss.
It was just total bliss.
And there's just this little bit
of background awareness of I'm
back in my body.
But most of it is this bliss.
And I don't know how
long I was in that space.
But then this little
thought comes in-- I
have an important appointment.
This man is coming
from Israel to see
me to talk about the future
of children in the world.
And I thought, oh yeah, I need
to get dressed and everything.
I get out of bed, start
to walk, and it hits.
Of course, I don't
know what hit me.
I double over and I can't
quite even sit straight.
LISA GARR: So you didn't
feel sick, you didn't feel--
MICHAEL TAMURA: Before that,
I felt nothing but bliss.
And then all of a sudden,
I'm having-- it's like pain,
but it wasn't like
shooting pains or anything,
crushing pains.
It was just all over, and I
didn't know what to make of it.
And my energy was going
all over the place.
And just then Raphaelle walks
in, and she goes, are you OK?
Are you having a heart attack?
She's the one who caught it.
LISA GARR: Oh, she
knew instantly, yeah.
And I go through my mind, and
back to my way-back nursing
training.
And I says, no, I don't see an
elephant sitting on my chest.
That's what, you know.
That's what it was
explained, yeah.
And I don't have a
crushing chest pain,
and I don't have radiating
pain down my left arm.
And that at that time,
that's what we learned.
And I said, no,
I don't think so.
I think it's just massive energy
from something's going on.
Could you give me a healing?
And Raphaelle is a
tremendous healer.
So she goes right to the couch
and starts giving me a healing.
And it's giving me a
little bit of relief,
but it's still going
all over the place.
And I remember walking
around in circles.
And interestingly enough,
later on, Raphaelle
told me that when I was
walking around in circles
I start-- I thought I
was groaning in pain.
But she said, no, no,
it was very specific.
You were chanting the
Jewish prayer for the dead.
LISA GARR: Oh my goodness!
I never even heard of it.
And definitely, I don't
know what that is.
And I said, how do you know?
And she said well, I just
watched it on TV about a week
or two weeks ago.
They had this whole
thing where they
did this whole Jewish
prayer for the dead thing.
And what was coming
out of your mouth
was exactly that, in
this whole intonation.
And as I went around in circles.
LISA GARR: Were you experiencing
pain throughout this?
MICHAEL TAMURA: And kind
of total disorientation,
and not knowing
which way was up.
Then all I knew was I had
to go outside in the grass.
And all I wanted to be
was on the green grass
of our lawn in the backyard.
We're bounded by the forest.
And it was a beautiful,
beautiful cloudless sunny day.
And I went outside-- this is
early in the morning, 8:30--
and I went outside, and I
said, continue healing me,
I just need to deal
with something.
And so I went, and as
soon as I got on the lawn,
I was on my knees.
I flopped over, my
head was on the ground.
And I wasn't dead yet.
[LAUGHS] This was preliminary.
On the edge of my seat, OK.
But I found myself out
of my body probably 80%.
And I'm floating out of my
body in this beautiful space.
And I'm surrounded by
six spiritual masters,
great beings.
LISA GARR: The same ones?
Three of them were
same, and three
were different from
the council meeting.
And but I recognized them.
LISA GARR: It's very specific.
Yeah, and they surrounded
me all the way around.
And my first thought was, thank
God you're here, I need help.
And I expected them to swoop
in and save me or something.
But they all went
back away from me.
All in unison, they
were, whatever,
ten feet away from me.
And now they're 20
feet away from me.
And I thought, oh my God.
They didn't abandon me.
I can feel their support,
but the communication
was, this is your time, and
you need to make a choice.
LISA GARR: Now, were
you aware of your body
at all on the ground?
Was there pain?
There was this--
MICHAEL TAMURA: Well, the body
was kind of in the background.
So I wasn't so aware
of the body anymore.
I was right in that space
of I need to make a choice.
And when these guys give
instructions like that,
I listen.
And so I'm going, OK, I
need to make a choice.
What kind of a choice do I make?
Because I already know that
I've already died once,
and I've been told I'm
done with what I was--
LISA GARR: Here to do.
So this is a new choice.
And I said, and I'm not sure
if my body is going to make
it through this experience.
So I was very aware that
I may physically die.
What's the choice?
And I went through all
kinds of what would people
think about at this time.
And I thought of all
those survival things
that people think of--
call 911, I want to live,
or I don't want to live,
those kind of things.
And I thought,
no, I need to make
a choice that is undivided.
That was the thing
I became aware
of, is most choices we make
in our lives are divided,
either-or.
Meaning either-or,
or this or that.
Yeah, I want to do this, or
not that, or things like that.
And I needed to make a choice.
I was very clear about that.
I needed to find a choice that
I could make that was undivided.
That is the real healing.
We're divided.
Healing means to restore
ourselves to wholeness.
So I need to make a
choice that will restore
the wholeness of myself.
And when I thought
of that, I realized
I need to make a
choice to have life,
but that choice isn't
about keeping the body
or not keeping the body.
It's not about making the
body completely healthy,
or being crippled, or whatever.
I needed to be OK with any
condition life gave me.
LISA GARR: Isn't it
interesting that we
walk around like
that, that we walk
around divided so many times.
And we're in an unconscious job,
or an unconscious relationship,
and we are constantly
choosing to be in that place,
essentially.
We don't really walk around
life choosing life all day long.
MICHAEL TAMURA: No, it's always
either-or, for most people.
Can you imagine if we did?
Then you'll be walking
in eternal life.
-On this earth?
-On this earth.
While you have a body
or not, it doesn't
matter, because you're having
and embracing life fully.
LISA GARR: I can't quite
wrap my head around that.
Because I am still
attached to the body,
and the experience here.
And I have a child,
so I'd like to stay.
But see, then I am making
that choice, right?
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yup.
-OK.
MICHAEL TAMURA: But
regardless of what happens,
it's kind of like,
well, you experience--
most everybody will experience
it when you love deeply.
LISA GARR: Yes.
-You love your child--
LISA GARR: Fully, completely.
---fully completely,
no questions.
And so no matter
what happens, you're
going to be there for her.
LISA GARR: Yes.
I choose that, yes.
That's-- it's not divided.
It's whole.
LISA GARR: Right,
right, I see the purity.
Yeah, so I needed to make that
decision about life in general.
It's not just about
a particular person,
or just because I love this
person, but not that person.
I had to love life with
all its conditions.
LISA GARR: So then
what happened?
MICHAEL TAMURA: When
I made that choice,
something changed
inside of myself.
I came back into my body, and
my body was still struggling.
But now, again, I had all this
energy, so I could manage this.
And I found that my
head was on the ground,
and this green grass
was in front of my face,
and that's what
I'm staring at now.
And I said, Mother Earth.
LISA GARR: You're right here!
I recognized, and I
said, Mother Earth.
I said, there is this heaviness
and something in my chest,
in my heart.
May I let this go into you?
And this green became
this velvet blackness.
It opened up like a curtain.
The green opened
up like a curtain
into this velvet blackness.
And as soon as that
happened, everything started
pouring out of my chest.
It just kept pouring out.
It was like an oil change.
You know, this old--
LISA GARR: It's energy.
Yeah, it's old, gunky,
old, black energy came out.
And then there's faces.
And I start to recognize
those faces and situations.
These were residues.
I did quite well
healing myself after I
gave somebody else a
healing so I don't take
on somebody else's illness.
But there's always little
bits of-- little residues
here and there at times.
And over many years and
thousands of people.
LISA GARR: Absolutely,
that's how--
And some of them
were quite desperate.
And so all this residue
that I accumulated came out,
and out, and out,
and out, and out.
LISA GARR: That's
why many healers
wind up poisoning their body,
because they don't let that go.
And it's--
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yeah, that's
why I always joke that-- well,
it's not quite a joke,
but I joke that [CHUCKLE]
healers are some of the sickest
people on the planet, because--
-Because they take on.
-Exactly.
Yes, we've known many that
have passed away because of.
Yeah.
So you poured this
into the earth.
MICHAEL TAMURA: And
once that finished,
the green curtain of grass
came back into my view,
the blackness was gone,
and I felt lighter.
And I felt I'm OK.
So then I jumped
up, ran upstairs--
LISA GARR: What?
-[LAUGHS]
LISA GARR: Didn't
get an ambulance?
Nobody called?
MICHAEL TAMURA: Oh no, no.
I ran upstairs, and Raphaelle's
holding our dog and our cat,
and they're all just like,
oh my god, he's going to die.
And I said, I'm
doing a lot better,
but I have this
appointment at ten o'clock.
LISA GARR: What?
This guy's coming all the
way from Israel to see me.
And isn't that interesting,
this man from Israel.
I did this whole thing.
So then I said, I feel
too weak to drive the two
minutes into town office.
Raphaelle, could you take me?
And she said, absolutely.
We get in the car-- she had
a separate plan, of course.
We get in the car,
we're starting to drive,
and she said, how
are you feeling?
I says, I'm OK.
I'm much better, and thank you.
And and she said well, now
that you're feeling better,
you know, I already changed
your appointment to later
on this afternoon
indefinitely, and he
knows he's on call,
that you might
not be able to see him today.
And I said, oh, thank you, and
so that gives us more time.
And she said, why don't we swing
by the hospital on the way?
Like, you know, it's on
the way to the office.
It's way on the
other side of town.
And so-- [LAUGHING]
That's what Raphaelle
has to do, yeah.
And I was laughing inside.
And I said, oh yeah.
And so not only to appease
her, but I thought,
well, it would be good.
Because now I got
the green light.
Until then, I wasn't
to go to the hospital.
LISA GARR: What do you mean
you got the green light?
I didn't have the
green light to call
911, or go to emergency, or
see a doctor, or anything.
Because there was something
I had to do first.
LISA GARR: Oh, OK.
And that was what the
whole choice thing was.
And now I look for guidance
and I get the green light--
yes, you can go to the ER.
So we go to the ER.
And so the lesson
that I'm hearing
is that it is about
choosing life,
and is about making that
conscious choice every day.
So when you showed up,
though, at the ER with a--
MICHAEL TAMURA: I learned
that you shouldn't
walk into the ER laughing.
[LAUGHS] Because
the triage nurse
couldn't tell who
was in trouble.
And she looked at Raphaelle.
She thought Raphaelle was the
one who needed the emergency.
And Raphaelle said no,
he's had chest pains,
and we're concerned
he's had a heart
attack, and blah blah blah.
And the nurse looks at me,
and asked me a few questions.
She said, OK, well.
And she shouts back to the
back, another chest pain!
And she said, oh
you don't believe.
This morning, just in
the last 20 minutes,
there's four people walking
in with chest pains,
and they're all fine.
LISA GARR: It's like there's
like another order there.
Interesting.
So I go in-- the doctor
comes in, the ER doctor
comes into the exam room.
And we're talking, and she
asks questions about the pain.
And I said, oh, that's much
better now than it was before.
And she says, how long before?
I said, what time-- and then I
realized I had no idea of time.
I said, what time is it?
And she said 12:30.
I said, wow.
I said it started at
8:30 this morning.
And then she just had
this look of horror,
and she started barking
out all these orders,
and I'm strapped to
all these things.
LISA GARR: So it was only three
hours later, and you were--
Yeah, four hours later.
Three or four hours
later, and you were fine.
And when she hooked me up to
the EKG, she got on the phone,
she's talking to somebody, some
doctor, cardiologist somewhere.
And she said, I called
for the ambulance.
They're going to take you to
a bigger city hosp-- this is
a tiny town, so small
hospital can't handle
the major condition I was in.
And she said,
you're about to die.
And if I don't inject
you with this deadly drug
that could kill you-- has a
50% chance of killing you.
So you have to sign
this waiver for me
to inject you with
this medication.
And I just blurted out laughing.
I says, I think I'm still alive.
And I'm doing much better now.
And she said, look at that.
And she shows me
the EKG, and it's
doing these amazing things.
And she said, that's
called a tombstone,
because it looks
like a tombstone.
And It's called a tombstone
because everybody who has that
dies.
And you're right in the middle
of this major heart attack.
LISA GARR: And you're having
a full conversation with her
that you're more coherent.
Yes.
Like you are now.
Yeah.
And so then I said,
well, and I said,
well, gee, you're telling me
if I take this medication,
I have a 50% chance of dying?
And she said yes.
But if you don't, you
have 100% chance of dying.
I said, oh.
I said, you're the doctor.
Is that your best-- you know,
I'll go with your best opinion.
He says, well, I only have one
opinion-- you better take this.
So I signed.
But the thing I was aware
of that moment, everything
was golden.
It's just I felt like I was
totally in the palms of God.
I'm being held up.
And the doctor wasn't aware,
anybody else in the room
wasn't aware.
But I was aware that
everything was one.
What the doctor
wasn't aware of, she
was part of one
of the cast of all
these people and the spirit.
I'm seeing all these
spirit healers and angels,
and I'm seeing the doctor
and the physical people,
and the medical people.
And they're all
working in unison.
It was like this
beautiful, divinely
choreographed dance that's
happening right before my eyes.
And I'm right in
the middle of this.
And everything is-- there's
nothing that can go wrong.
I knew that.
-So it didn't matter--
MICHAEL TAMURA:
It didn't matter.
---in the energy and
the space you were in.
MICHAEL TAMURA: It
wasn't that idea of I'd
better make the right decision.
No-- I couldn't make
the wrong decision.
Wow.
You were that guided and
protected in that space.
That's a beautiful
space to be in.
And I mean, once again,
what I'm taking away
from this is you
don't have to die
in order to get that feeling.
MICHAEL TAMURA: No.
Just your explanation of it,
I can get a little glimpse
into what you're talking about.
The gold is a very
clear description.
That makes sense.
So after this experience you
went on to continue to teach,
you went on to
continue to travel.
I mean, how long did it-- we
actually have a picture of you
before a lecture.
How long after?
MICHAEL TAMURA:
And the funny thing
was it was on the way
to the next hospital
that I actually died, that
technical part of, you know,
my heart stopping.
I'm in the back
of the ambulance,
Raphaelle's driving her SUV.
MICHAEL TAMURA: Oh,
so they transported
you to another hospital?
MICHAEL TAMURA: To
another hospital,
because they couldn't handle
this major of a heart trauma.
So I got an hour and a half
ambulance ride to go through.
LISA GARR: And you
did get the injection?
I did get the injection.
LISA GARR: I wonder if--
And I felt better with that.
And then halfway through
the mountain pass,
I'm looking at this young
kid who's the paramedic.
He was so intent.
I tried to calm him
down, and I said,
don't worry, I'm not going
to croak on you. [CHUCKLE]
LISA GARR: You said
this to this kid?
Yeah.
And I guess it's that moment
I said that, I was out,
and I flat-lined.
And I'm going out the
body, and I'm going out
the top of the ambulance roof.
And I look back at Raphaelle
and she's like this
on the steering wheel.
And she's clairvoyant.
LISA GARR: Oh, I
can imagine, yes.
She sees me and
she goes, oh no.
And she does this.
She's fisting at me going
out of the body. [LAUGHS]
And I'm laughing, because you're
in a very different space when
you're out.
I told you this was an
unbelievable story, so OK.
So she's going like this.
And I knew this isn't
what she was thinking,
but I, in my mind,
I just made up,
she's going I'm going to
kill you if you leave,
if you die on me!
LISA GARR: Oh my God. [CHUCKLE]
And I'm kind of laughing.
And then the next thing, I'm in
the celestial realm surrounded
by five golden beings.
And one comes down, turns
into this beautiful angel.
And she puts her
hand on my chest,
and says, "not yet," and starts
pushing me back into the body.
LISA GARR: I'm
really glad you're
writing a book about this.
MICHAEL TAMURA: Oh,
there's a lot that went on.
And somebody's also
doing a movie about this.
Thank goodness,
because these-- it's
like a comedy at this point.
But not really, because
the joy-- and the fact
that, as I said earlier, that
he's sitting here telling
this story is unbelievable.
So you were now
becoming familiar
with the near-death experience.
MICHAEL TAMURA: Oh yes.
You were out there again
looking at the ambulance.
And I have--
MICHAEL TAMURA: It's
different each time, yeah.
I've been through this, so I
can identify with what you're
talking about, where
I had an accident,
and went above, and looked down.
And so I do understand
what you're saying.
But you saw Raphaelle,
you had this conversation,
the angels said not now.
And what year was
this, by the way?
This was still 2006, July 11th.
LISA GARR: OK,
you remember that.
Two days before our
anniversary and three days
before my birthday.
Birthday.
Again, you like
the birthday thing.
OK, so after you went
to-- did the ambulance,
the boy in the ambulance--
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yeah, well,
he had this paddles out.
So I don't think he had to
shock me to get me back.
I flat-lined and spontaneously--
LISA GARR: Came back.
And because the first thing
I heard him say was he was
telling his supervisor
in the front seat,
he's back, he's back! [LAUGHS]
He's sweating bullets.
Because he was going
to take his finals.
He wasn't even a fully
licensed paramedic yet.
He was a EMT, but he
was going for his finals
for his paramedic
license the next week.
LISA GARR: Oh, the guys probably
working in a market now,
and let go of the
whole career, because--
Well, that was
kind of the picture.
He was like, I'm
not doing this.
Yeah, but he was very
happy that I came back.
OK.
And the rest was
uneventful, very nice.
And when we got to the hospital,
the doctors, the cardiologists,
anesthesiologists, they
were ready to put me
under to operate.
And the doctor looks at me
and says, how do you feel?
And I said, oh, a lot better.
And he says, you look great!
He said your color's great,
your blood pressure is perfect,
your pulse is perfect.
He says, your EKG shows you did
have a pretty bad heart attack,
but it's over now.
And so I said, you
mean now I don't
have to get surgery or
anything, or any kind
of invasive procedures?
And he said, not at this moment.
We'll put you up to cardiac
care unit, intensive care,
and watch you overnight.
And we'll make a decision
tomorrow what to do with you.
But he says, but you're not
getting out of the hospital.
I said, OK.
LISA GARR: Oh, so you
stayed for a while.
And then how long after
that did you start to feel
better, back on your feet?
MICHAEL TAMURA: Well, that night
I had another clot, basically
almost like a pre-heart attack.
So they caught it, and
they put a stent in.
And so I went through
not a major surgery,
just a stent procedure.
LISA GARR: OK.
Which was also amazing.
It was like, again, part
of that divine dance.
And afterwards-- it took like
five minutes, 10 minutes--
and the anesthesiologist
and the cardiologist
looked at each other,
says, that was fast.
I don't think I've ever
done this proced-- he said,
I've done this
procedure 1,500 times.
It's never been this
perfect, and never
been this fast, and this easy.
LISA GARR: So your
experiences of truly going
through these near-deaths,
flat-lined-- I mean,
this is, I think, the
third or fourth one
that you've talked about now.
Just the fact that you're
not in a wheelchair right
now is amazing.
I mean, you're here talking,
fully energetic, bright,
experiences talking about this.
And so is that why you went
back to teaching, because you--
MICHAEL TAMURA: Oh yeah.
I mean, that's
what I'm here for.
And this gives me more
material. [LAUGHS] Nothing
beats first-hand experience.
Oh my goodness.
But I promised Raphaelle
and everybody else.
I said OK, I think I'm
done doing research.
So, I mean, what
is the message?
What are you teaching from
all of these experiences?
MICHAEL TAMURA: Well I've
learned from that experience
to keep eternity in
front of me at all times.
LISA GARR: And what
do you mean by that?
And that's easier said
than done, of course.
In regular life, in any
given day, how many times
do you think about when, what
time something starts, when is
it going to end, you
know, when are we going
to get there, in
everyday life-- you know,
stuck in traffic, whatever.
We're always looking for
the beginning or the ending
in time.
LISA GARR: Right, right.
Which doesn't really exist.
In spirit, there's
only eternity.
So there's only eternity.
Beginnings and
endings don't exist.
So I started to look at, to
live an unconditional life.
To embody that Christ
consciousness and energy,
I realized I was incredibly
aware of every time
I have a thought of when
is this going to end?
Or oh, well, I realize we
do that when there's pain.
LISA GARR: Ah, yes.
Whenever, any kind of pain,
we start to think about I
don't know how long
this is going to last.
I want it to hurry up.
I want to get out of here.
I want to finish.
LISA GARR: Grow to the next
moment, the next moment, yes.
And I want the
good stuff to start.
Instant, yes.
This Christ consciousness
that you're talking about,
can you explain what that is?
This is something
that I've been
experiencing more and more.
It's the totality and
the unity of life.
We're not separate.
When I died the fourth
time, it was a real--
that was the biggest one.
I was exercising at the
gym, and my heart stopped.
This was August, August
10th of 2011, last year.
[LAUGHS] And that
that was a doozy.
And the amazing thing is every
experience, both any kind
of past life recall of my
death, and of a lifetime,
or these experiences,
the near-death
experiences I've had in this
life, everything is unique.
Every experience is different,
details, different experience.
But the thing that kept
on coming back around
from this fourth one, I
realize the first one was-- I
said it was kind of a rebirth.
The second one was kind
of checking in and setting
course for my new life.
And it took about two years
to get into my new life.
And then this third one--
or the fourth experience,
the third death,
was one of total.
I have no recollection
of what happened
here in the physical world.
I don't even remember
I was at the gym.
In fact I don't
remember 15 days worth--
LISA GARR: Oh, OK
---of anything And so
from whatever happened
on the physical side was all
hearsay from medical people,
and people who were witnesses.
I was exercising.
I was in a very good
shape from really
working myself back to health
from the other experiences.
And my heart was in good
condition and everything.
But it just stopped.
And I flopped.
And somebody ran downstairs
to tell the manager.
Just so happens that the
manager's son, 19-year-old son,
was a fully-trained
EMT working out.
He was back from college
just for the weekend,
waiting for his mom to go
out to lunch or something
after her shift ended, which
was in about half an hour.
So this all happens, and
they had some trouble getting
everything to the right spot.
And then when he was the first
responder, when he found me,
he said I was already in
kind of a rigor mortis,
he said, this premature
kind of a rigor
mortis where I was completely
stiff, all gnarled up.
My legs were tangled up
in the elliptical machine,
so he couldn't get
me out of there.
He said I had no pulse, no
respiration, no nothing.
And so he had to get help.
Four people had to untangle
me from the elliptical machine
to put me flat on the ground
so then he can start--
LISA GARR: Actually helping you.
We actually have
a picture of him--
Oh yeah!
LISA GARR: --and his mom.
And they were
working at the gym.
So from this experience
where you were--
and you had the memory loss
and everything like that,
what did you take away
from that experience?
At that point, did you
realize that you needed
to get your heart checked, that
you needed another procedure,
or did it even--
MICHAEL TAMURA: Oh, I
had a open-heart surgery.
But not because
of what happened.
[CHUCKLE]
LISA GARR: OK.
MICHAEL TAMURA: When they were
checking me to see-- because
of my previous heart
attacks and stuff,
they thought that
was another one.
Well, it wasn't a heart attack.
They went in to check,
and the cardiologist found
that that wasn't the problem.
LISA GARR: No
blockage [INAUDIBLE].
And then but while he was in
there, something else burst.
Another artery in
my heart burst open.
So if that had happened
somewhere else,
I would have been dead and gone.
LISA GARR: Oh.
So all this is happening
in the physical world.
And meanwhile,
what I experienced
was the most incredible--
it was like being-- before,
all the other ones, is leaving.
LISA GARR: OK.
This one was being sucked out.
It was like a express--
LISA GARR: A vacuum, hm.
Like somebody came
and picked me up.
And instantly, I was
transported to the feeling of it
now, as far away from here
as you can possibly get to,
yet being in the total
center of it all.
That's the feeling of it.
And what did you gather there?
What was that?
MICHAEL TAMURA: What I would
estimate about three days earth
time, I was sitting
in front of what
I can call the eternal
flame of God's love.
That was the word that I came
up with from the experience,
which doesn't do it justice.
But it's this central,
most sacred place.
And the feeling there
is, there's no me.
I don't exist.
But I'm aware of it.
LISA GARR: You're
pure consciousness.
It's just all awareness.
There's no end in sight.
It's just this incredible
space of holiness and love,
unconditional.
LISA GARR: It's interesting
because in that space,
I don't think we actually
have physical words.
They haven't been created.
No.
And it doesn't exist in time.
So when we talk,
we have to put one
word after another-- linear.
There's nothing linear there.
And so this is just--
once I'm back here,
being able to talk
in linear time,
I could describe it
the best I could.
But it has nothing really to
do with the actual experience.
So do you think that
that's the ultimate feeling
of what the afterlife is?
MICHAEL TAMURA: This place
was not a typical place
that a soul goes to when he or
she dies from an incarnation.
This is where-- I
was very humbled,
and very-- I don't know
what-- again, there's
no words to describe it.
But I got this tremendous
blessing and initiation
of being able to be in the
sanctuary for a period of time,
to immerse in this energy.
And after that, I was taken
to various temples of learning
in a whole different arena
of the celestial spheres,
if you will, where I
was put through a lot
of rigorous, advanced
spiritual training,
what we would call
here meditation,
very deep meditation.
But their example, one was being
in this-- like a cylindrical,
a small cylindrical space.
And then all of a sudden,
all the walls are gone,
and the floor's gone.
Everything's gone, I'm
floating in mid-space.
And the most horrific
things start to come at you.
I mean, from every direction,
every kind of vile,
evil, what people would
call evilness, and darkness,
and horror, and terror, and
everything comes at you.
And I was prepared.
They said, OK, go
into meditation,
and whatever happens from this
point, once this thing starts,
whatever happens you have
to be totally centered
and letting everything
pass through.
You can't resist anything.
So that's what I practice.
Without the body, it's
a little bit easier.
But it's still-
LISA GARR: Right,
I can understand.
The mind reacts
to things, right?
Mm, still, yes.
Yeah, so I have to be totally
still and let this happen.
And it would go on,
and on, and on, and on.
So that was the
ultimate ego-less space.
That was the absence
of ego at all.
MICHAEL TAMURA: In
practicing that.
It was a test, so to speak.
And then from there, I'd
be taken to other spaces
to work things out, and then
come back to that space.
LISA GARR: So have you been
able to access that state
of consciousness in meditation?
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yeah.
And in daily life.
And I'm aware this process
was more like resurrection
as opposed to rebirth.
LISA GARR: Wow.
Rebirth, you get a clear
slate, and you start over fresh.
LISA GARR: I just can't believe
the stories, the experiences.
I'm so glad that this is going
to be put into a book soon,
and, you know, shown to
people throughout a movie.
Is there anything you want
to, like, tell the audience--
we just have a
few minutes left--
of what we can
hope to experience,
or bring into this
consciousness now?
Not that we have to
go outside to do that.
Yes.
The single most important thing
from all the death experiences
of any kind of death,
including divorces, and moving,
and losing a job, and
losing a person you love,
and the whole bit, is every
death, the lesson is the same.
Every death is to be able to
let go of a little bit more
of our selfishness,
our possessiveness,
which come from
dividing ourselves,
come from wanting to separate.
You know, when we
stub our toe, we want
to separate from that pain.
When something
happens in our lives,
we want to separate from it.
Letting go of that desire to
separate and becoming whole,
it's letting go of selfishness.
LISA GARR: So letting go, and
letting go, and letting go.
And this is a practice
that we could do?
MICHAEL TAMURA: Every day.
Every day, it's
simple, it's not
a five-step process or an
entire-- it's just letting go.
And how do we detach like that?
Because we still do
have the ego involved.
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yes, so it's
recognizing-- letting go, also
another way of saying
it is forgiving
And in Japanese, the word
for forgiveness is yurushi.
To forgive means yurushi, which
is the same as untying a knot,
or loosening up a knot
LISA GARR: Oh.
Yeah, and forgiving,
to me, is exactly that.
We're loosening up the knot
we're binding ourselves to,
and letting go of the clinging.
In the Afghani language, I heard
the term for death is clinging,
to cling.
So you die if you cling.
If you let go,
you'll live forever.
LISA GARR: So if you're too
attached, too obsessive,
it's a slow death.
It's like--
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yeah,
it's holding on is death,
and letting go is life.
And the thing about
forgiving is when you realize
the truth, what the
truth really is, it's
like waking up from a dream.
The dream, you think it's real,
right, when you're dreaming?
It's like, this
is really intense,
and I'm running away from
the bad guys or whatever,
and scared, and all that.
You wake up, and you go,
oh, that was just a dream.
That was a bad nightmare.
And that's forgiving, is
when you recognize the thing
that you thought
was so horrible, so
terrible in your
life, or so painful,
it's really just a dream.
It's just the images
that we keep in our mind
and project it into the
world as if it's real.
LISA GARR: I just
would love to have
a whole other hour with you.
And I'm sure we
could continue on.
Because--
MICHAEL TAMURA: Easily.
---in this hour, you've given
me the experience of what
the afterlife is like, what
pure consciousness is like,
what the experience of
detachment really is,
the Buddhist philosophy
of detachment.
It really is-- neutrality,
maybe detachment
isn't even the right word.
MICHAEL TAMURA: Yeah, because
people think of neutrality
or detachment as flat.
LISA GARR: Yeah, right.
-No feeling.
-No emotion.
-And that's not true.
There's no emotion, but
in the absence of emotion,
there's what we would call
joy and profound peace.
LISA GARR: It's embodying
the Christ, as you call it.
And regardless of
your religious belief,
it's embodying that
feeling of oneness.
MICHAEL TAMURA: All-inclusive.
All-inclusive.
And you live your
life like that now?
Well, I practice.
[LAUGHS] Yeah, and then
look at how many times
you've brought joy
into this hour as well.
I mean, you've brought laughter
and joy about serious topics.
And you could be sitting here
in a wheelchair, and you're not.
You're here vibrant, alive,
colorful, and laughter,
is about it.
Well, I thank you
so much for bringing
this incredible experience and
all of your experiences with us
to bring us the teaching
moments from it I really
do believe that you have.
And Michael Tamura's book is
called "You Are the Answer."
You can take a look at
that on this website,
which is michaeltamura.com.
There's a lot more there that
you can learn from his stories
and his experiences.
And I just thank you for
being here, I really do.
Thank you for having me.
Please come back.
I will.
[LAUGHS] Or--
-Promise--
Stay, stay. [LAUGHS]
Stay, we have this
on video-- stay.
In obedience school,
I learned "heel" first.
Now I have to learn
"stay." [LAUGHS]
If you'd like to watch
a replay of my interview
with Michael Tamura and
share it with your friends,
go to GaiamTV.com.
There are a lot more
thought-provoking interviews
and inspirational
films at GaiamTV.com,
so sign up for a
free trial today.
Thank you so much for watching.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]